# Transaction Data Analysis & Modeling
Completed: May 2022

Following a CRISP-DM process, I created a model and system that can identify potential fraudulent credit card transactions. The Augustana College Finace Department provided us with an actual log of all credit card transactions of a particular account from a previous year. The dataset had of course been scrubbed of all teacher or employee references and given replacement identifiers. I began by extensively exploring many aspects of the data by grouping and examining parts of the financial transactions by employee, department, transaction amounts, and time of year for transactions. I discovered many interesting trend in transactions depending on the department and time of year (visualizations outlined in the notebook linked below). I then created a code to iterate through all transactions and identify normal and abnormal identifiers. These identifiers are logically coded as rules by me and are supported by several visuals and results in the data. This effectively trains a model that can identify future abnormal transactions in three aspects: abnormalities in employee, merchant, and account transactions. This can be eployed by the Finance department to identify future fraudulent behavior in a number of aspects. Take a look through the file above named "[Benac_AugieFinancial.ipynb](https://github.com/ryanbenac33/ProjectShowcase/blob/main/Transaction%20Data%20Analysis%20%26%20Modeling/Benac_AugieFinancial.ipynb)" to examine the entire data analysis process. 